#summary How To Compile pForth.
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured

= Introduction =

PForth is very easy to build on most platforms. The main steps are:

 # Build pForth kernel in 'C'.
 # Run pForth and build Forth dictionary. It will save automatically.
 # Run pForth with dictionary and test it.

For more information see: http://www.softsynth.com/pforth/pf_ref.html

= Building pForth =

We have provided projects and Makefiles for some platforms.

 * CompilingOnWindows
 * CompilingOnUnix
 * CompilingOnMac

If you want to compile pForth for a new platform, please follow these instructions.

== Custom Compile of Kernel ==

 # Add all of the 'C' code in the "csrc/" folder.
 # If your system supports getchar() and putchar() then add all of the files in "csrc/stdio/".
 # If you want floating support then define preprocessor variable PF_SUPPORT_FP
 # Compile, link and place the executable called "pforth" in the "fth/" folder.

== Building The Dictionary ==

The _words_ (functions) in pForth are stored in a dictionary. They are mostly written in Forth and can be compiled by the pForth kernel. Enter:

{{{
cd fth
pforth -i system.fth
}}}

The dictionary will be compiled and saved in a file called "pforth.dic" . That file will get loaded automatically if you enter:

{{{
pforth
}}}

= Testing pForth =

You can now execute pForth using the compiled dictionary. Enter:

{{{
pforth
}}}

Now add a couple numbers together to test the interpreter. Enter:
{{{
5  2  +  .
bye
}}}
It should added 5 and 2 then printed the result.

You can also run several unit tests. By entering:
{{{
pforth t_corex.fth
pforth t_strings.fth
pforth t_locals.fth
pforth t_alloc.fth
}}}

For more information see: http://www.softsynth.com/pforth/pf_ref.html

Here is a Forth tutorial: http://www.softsynth.com/pforth/pf_tut.html